# Installation and Configuration

## Installation

### Using docker

A docker configuration is provided

If you want to use a domain you will need to edit your hosts file to point `different-like-u.local` to your localhost `127.0.0.1`, you should add this to your hosts file:

```
127.0.0.1	different-like-u.local
```

Then you can get the containers up and running:

```bash
./bin/development.sh
```

This will create the containers for MySQL, Redis and PHP + Nginx.

Once the containers are up, open a new tab in your terminal to access the php container.

```bash
./bin/exec-app-container.sh
```

Once you are inside the container, navigate to the project's folder `cd /var/www/html/`

You should be ready for configuration!

>Please note that in this configuration you should use `http://different-like-u.local/` as the domain for the application

### Configure the Scaffold project

Once the project has been downloaded and the services are running, follow the configuration steps

- In the php container run `touch storage/oauth-private.key && touch storage/oauth-public.key`
- In the php container or in the root of the project run `composer install` to install all the dependencies.
    > You will need to enter the laravel nova credentials during the installation, please ask Anthony Sgueglia or your tech lead for them.
- Create a .env file that looks like the following (you can also view the .env.example file in this codebase)
    ```
    APP_NAME=Different_Like_You
    APP_ENV=local
    APP_KEY=base64:krBFT/0qF9pv3Qw4Sw0MuZ676c0ZvAQCrTHaco0Y84s=
    APP_DEBUG=true
    APP_URL=http://different-like-u.local

    LOG_CHANNEL=stack
    LOG_LEVEL=debug

    DB_CONNECTION=mysql
    DB_HOST=mysql
    DB_PORT=3306
    DB_DATABASE=differentlikeu
    DB_USERNAME=root
    DB_PASSWORD=secret

    BROADCAST_DRIVER=log
    CACHE_DRIVER=redis
    QUEUE_CONNECTION=redis
    SESSION_DRIVER=redis
    SESSION_LIFETIME=120

    REDIS_HOST=redis
    REDIS_PASSWORD=null
    REDIS_PORT=6379

    MAIL_MAILER=smtp
    MAIL_HOST=smtp.mailtrap.io
    MAIL_PORT=2525
    MAIL_USERNAME=null
    MAIL_PASSWORD=null
    MAIL_ENCRYPTION=null
    MAIL_FROM_ADDRESS=null
    MAIL_FROM_NAME="${APP_NAME}"

    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
    AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=us-east-1
    AWS_BUCKET=

    PUSHER_APP_ID=
    PUSHER_APP_KEY=
    PUSHER_APP_SECRET=
    PUSHER_APP_CLUSTER=mt1

    MIX_PUSHER_APP_KEY="${PUSHER_APP_KEY}"
    MIX_PUSHER_APP_CLUSTER="${PUSHER_APP_CLUSTER}"
    ```
    Make sure you get the AWS and Stripe Keys specific for your project from your tech lead
- Once you create this file run `php artisan migrate` to migrate the DB
- Run `php artisan app:install` and answer the questions to create the admin user.
- Run `php artisan key:generate` to generate the unique App Key for the .env file.
- Run `php artisan passport:keys --force` to create the passport encryption keys.
- Open a SQL client and access the database, grab the clients in the table oauth_clients and populate the .env file with those values
    ```
    PASSPORT_CLIENT_ID=1
    PASSPORT_CLIENT_SECRET=iPpewyqB3FMfAH0Y2VRpF9VH8JuAPgshixV4humu
    ```
- Create an account in mailtrap.io and fill out the SMTP credentials for email delivery
    ```
    MAIL_USERNAME=null
    MAIL_PASSWORD=null
    ```
- Open http://different-like-u.local/admin and you should be able to log in.

### Compile the frontend app

The Front end app is a React SPA that runs withing the laravel application, this means we have to install dependencies and compile the react app.

- Run `npm install`
- Run `npm run dev`

This will compile the app and it will be ready to be used

# Tests

## Running the test suite

Navigate to the project root and run `composer test` after installing all the composer dependencies and after the .env file was created.
